VisualMRC(visual machine reading comprehension dataset) wherein given a question and a document image, a machine reads and comprehends texts in the image to answer the question in natural language. 

current studies in MRC almost exclusively focus on text-level understanding, while neglecting the visual layout and content (text appearance,tables, charts, etc.) of the documents.

VisualMRC dataset provides regions-of-interest (ROIs) with semantic classes in addition to QA pairs and document images.

TASK 1 (End-to-end VisualMRC). Given a question q and a
document image I, a model generates an answer a

SUBTASK 1 (Region-Of-Interest (ROI) detection). Given an
image I, a model detects a set of ROIs. Each ROI ri consists
of a bounding box bi and a semantic class label li
.
SUBTASK 2 (OCR). Given a ROI ri
, a model detects a set
of word objects within the region. Each word object consists
of a bounding box bi,j and a form wi,j .


We defined content that is suitable as a document image as follows.
(i) No handwritten text is allowed: only machine-printed
text. (ii) The content is preferred to contain both pictures
and texts, but this is not strictly required. (iii) The content must contain a minimum of three natural language sentences, preferably no more than 2-3 paragraphs. (iv) The
content has to contain information at least two of the classes
described in the next subsection.
Ground-truth ROI annotation. 45 crowdworkers were
asked to indicate specific objects (ROI ri
in SUBTASK 1) in
the given image I by annotating bounding boxes bi around
the objects and classifying them into nine classes li
. Figure 2
shows a screenshot showing crowdworkers’ ROI annotation
by selecting a class among the nine classes for each ROI.
We defined the nine ROI classes as follows.
• Heading/Title The title or caption of a page, chapter, etc.
• Subtitle/Byline The secondary or subordinate title of a
page or a line of text giving the author’s name.
• Paragraph/Body The main text that would be read.
• Picture The picture or image that contains no text or data.
• Caption The text placed next an image, data, etc. that provides or explains information about an image or data.
• List Typically bulleted lists, where each bullet is not a full
sentence.
• Data Tables, charts, graphs, infographic, or other figures
with data or information.
• Sub-data The text placed inside of the Data region.
• Other Any other text that does not fit in the other categories
